Ready for question number 10.
When animating the following properties,
which have the correctly
listed rendering costs?
Is it width with layout, paint, and
composite, opacity with paints and
composite, background image with
just composite, left with layout,
paint, and composite, or
transform with paint and composite?
Also just remember that you can
select multiple if you want.
[LAUGH] And
also this is just kind of the default.
It can be a little different sometimes
in browsers, depending on stuff, but
yeah, default.
All right, let's look at the answer.
So the only right ones are A with width,
layout, paint, and composite, and
D with left, also layout,
paint, and composite.
So the correct, oops,
the correct one would've been
the opacity was only composite.
background-image should have
been paint and composite.
I don't know why that wasn't listed.
Here it's listed.
And transform is only composite.
Sorry, so this one's wrong.
Background image should also
include the paint, but yeah.
So first, let's go to the width.
So when we're changing the width,
maybe on hover,
we wanna go from 200 pixels to 300 pixels,
the browser first has to calculate kind of
geometry of the new sizes of the elements.
Cuz it might also affect the other
elements on the screen when we're
changing the width.
So in that case, it has to
calculate all the positions again.
In that case, it, of course, has to paint
it because we just changed the width.
And finally, it always has to
composite the layers together again.
Now, in this animation,
it's a bit more dramatic.
Browsers are very smart in optimizing
to only repaint the parts that
are affected by it,
not the entire page again.
But yeah, changing any sizes will
always cause a layout change.
And then always a paint and composite
as well, cuz it's kinda a pipeline.
When we change the opacity,
we only have to composite.
So opacity is one of those fun GPU
accelerated properties where a browser
will actually create or kind of promote
that element to a separate layer,
a separate graphics layer.
And when changing the opacity, what it can
do is it can just change, I think, it's
called the alpha channel on a graphics
layer, I'm not into graphics at all.
But basically it's what it does,
it can just change the layer's opacity.
Not the entire layout, not the element
itself within that same layout.
It can just change the layer's opacity.
So it only has to change the opacity
during that composite phase.
So it doesn't have to do anything.
It doesn't have to repaint,
it doesn't have to layout,
cuz we're not changing width or
height or anything.
And we're also not changing the pixels.
It's just changing the opacity
in that browser layer.
We'll talk a bit more about the GPU
accelerated properties soon
to see what other values
kind of work the same way.
It's also important to
remember that in some cases,
browsers might not create a separate layer
for opacity if we're not animating it, or
if they think, okay,
it doesn't really make sense,
cuz creating a different layer
consumes memory, kinda consumes data.
So you kinda wanna minimize the amount of
layers that you have in an application.
But when changing it, when hovering it,
it's first grade separate layer,
compositive back, and
then it can just be on the same layer.
So yeah, it's just for the animation.
Anyway, moving on to background-image, so
this one requires a paint and a composite.
So it doesn't need layout because
we're not changing width, height,
we're not changing anything there.
But it does have to repaint the pixels
to have that background image.
So this does require a paint,
and then of course,
always a composite to get all those layers
back together into one single image.
And then we have left, which does affect
the layout, like we were changing,
not necessarily the geometry,
we've changed the position.
So it might also alter the position
of other elements on the page.
So the browser has to ensure that it
knows where the other elements go when
changing left.
So this does require a layout, and
then eventually a paint
to repaint those pixels.
Again, this is a more dramatic one,
it does this in a very optimized way, and
then compositing the layers back
together into the final image.
And then finally, transform is also
one of those GPU-accelerated ones.
So when we transform, for example,
we wanna move the elements to the right,
I believe, translateX, yeah,
to the right 50 pixels.
It does so
by also promoting it to a separate layer.
So it doesn't just repaint every time
it forwards to a separate layer.
It can just move that layer on top of
it and then composite it back together.
So it doesn't have to do any layout
because we're not changing any of
the geometry of the elements that are on
that base layout, if that makes sense.
It just promotes it and
then they can just change that layer and
then compositive back,
if that makes sense.
So this is only composite
because transform and
translateX is one of those
accelerated property.
So if you ever wanna move an element
to the right or to the left,
make sure to use like translateX or
translateY, whatever you need, because
that makes sure that you're not repainting
every, even though it's not every pixel.
But if you were just to animate
this with a left or with a right,
the browser wouldn't promote
it to a separate layer, and
then it would have to repaint
the animation every time, re-layout.
This is just super expensive, cuz that
all happens on the main thread, right?
We saw with the task queue, it also has
the UI rendering, all those things.
So you don't want that,
cuz it's all blocking the main thread.
Yeah, that was the last one.
Make sense?
Questions?
[LAUGH] Yeah, what's that?
>> I have a question
about the opacity one,
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, I've seen in old code,
using opacity to change a color.
If it was black, somebody would say
opacity, 80%, and make it grayer.
That's a really bad way to do it now.
>> Yeah, well, I mean, you can do it.
If you don't animate it, it's fine.
If you just use an opacity,
it won't create a separate layer
just to show that opacity.
This is more about animating the opacity.
So during the animation,
it will create a new layer.
And after the animation, it usually gets
rid of that layer again, unless you,
yeah, okay,
I don't wanna spoil the next part, but
you can also use the will change opacity.
And in that case, it will always create
a new layer just for that elements,
but that wouldn't make sense
if you're not animating it.
Because it could have just eventually be
composited back onto the same layer if
you're not changing it.
So then you're just consuming memory for
no reason, but
you can still do, I mean, using opacity to
make it gray, honestly, I do that as well.
[LAUGH] I don't care,
it looks gray, so it's fine.
But yeah, then it just creates a layer,
but only during the very first composite,
and you won't see that
layer in your browser.
So, yeah, FYI,
If you open dev tools in Chrome,
there is a setting where you
can actually see layers.
And I think maybe after this, I can also
just show you because it's a pretty fun
tool and you might be pretty surprised at
just how many layers some websites have.
I can show Google, yeah,
I don't have anything bad there.
All right, so you can see Layers, for
example, and I'm pretty sure that Google,
all right, here, you can see the different
layers and you can kind of move around.
You see all the different
layers created here.
[SOUND] These are all the layers,
I don't know if you can see that.
So here, you can also see why.
You see the compositing reasons.
You see layer for link, highlight,
frame, overlay, all that stuff.
You have scrollable stuff.
Secondary layer, I don't know,
did I always give you reason?
iframes also get their own layer.
But you also see the memory estimate.
So for one layer, this is 7.2 megabytes,
and for this one, it's also 7.2.
This is 16.4 kilobytes,
all that kinda stuff.
So this is why it's important to ensure
that you don't create too many layers,
cuz they all consume memory and
you don't always need that.